the most important test for your website
hey i'm sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com
and host of the top 100 marketing
podcast business growth show
in this feature episode shot on my
smartphone for a change
i am joined by my son finley dunning i
think it's his first appearance in one
of our episodes here
and we'll be talking all about the test
your website needs to pass
if it does not pass this test chances
are you're losing visitors
most importantly using business and
you're losing revenue
it is called the grunt test coined by
donald miller that's it
the grunt test coined by donald miller
several years ago
featuring his book building a story
brand building a story brand really
really good book
recommend it for any business owner
anyone in marketing anyone looking to
grow their business using marketing
the grunt test means this could you
stick your website right now
in front of a caveman in caveman times
sitting there
in his cave could he see your homepage
within a few seconds grunt
these three things exactly what you do
how it helps them and how to do business
with you
if you couldn't then you're losing
business
many websites make the mistake so
typically when you land on a site you'll
land at the top of their screen
on a banner area or a hero area that's
got some kind of headline
some hopefully a call to action a value
proposition
so many companies make the mistake of
using jargon or insider jargon that
their customers or prospects just don't
have a clue what they
they do so you might be a tech company
saying we give you a 360
analytical comprehensive overview of all
our dashboards et cetera et cetera and
could a layman actually understand that
could even your target customer land on
your site
and understand what you exactly do how
it's going to help them and how to
take the next step so the next step
might be
request a demo book a call set up a
consultation request a free assessment
it could even be to buy now if you're
e-commerce
so could they with that kind of headline
probably not unless they know the
insider jargon so
to give you a quick example but web
choice we typically use a headline along
the lines of
we build websites and seo strategies
that generate leads and sales
meaning as soon as someone lands on our
site they know exactly what we can do
then there's two call to actions either
view our work or request a quote
that's it so as soon as someone lands
there they can know within a few seconds
what we do
how it can help them and they can take
the next step they can request a quote
or book a call with us
so still this tip steal the grunt test
if you're not sure if your website
passes the grunt test
all you've got to do is ask a couple of
your friends cover your contacts
send them over your website link if they
cannot
answer these three questions exactly
what you do exactly how it helps them
exactly how to get in touch
within three seconds max five seconds
then you need work you need to clarify
your message you need to get a clear
call to action
and you need to get that done as soon as
anyway hope you enjoy this special
episode
do hit the subscribe button if so and
with that we'll catch you on the next
one
cheers